"{\"article_id\": 315490, \"content\": \"Share This At least 5,561 people were killed and 2,463 were wounded across Iraq during October. These figures are estimates, perhaps even conservative ones. Breaking down the above numbers, we find that 1,629 civilians were killed, and 1,693 were injured. At least 303 security personnel were also killed, and 660 more were wounded in fighting. Militants lost an estimated 3,611 members, while 108 more are known to have been wounded. Again, these are very rough estimates. Also, one U.S. soldier was killed, and at least two French soldiers were wounded during October. Turkish airstrikes left at least 17 Kurdistan Workers Party (P.K.K.) guerrillas dead as well. These figures are much higher than they were in September due to a massive operation that was launched against the city of Mosul. Last month only 2,824 people were killed and 1,208 were wounded. Due to the nature of the fighting in Iraq, accurate numbers may be impossible to obtain. The Iraqi government has been tight with releasing casualty statements concerning security personnel. On the other hand, authorities may be too loose with figures detailing militant losses. Those figures may also represent civilian losses counted as military. In other news: Iraq\\u2019s special forces entered the Gogjiali (Kokjali) district on Monday, which marks the first time security personnel have been within Mosul city limits since the Islamic State militants seized the city in 2014. They were able to progress to the Karama neighborhood. A Reuters reporter in nearby Bazwaya village \\u2014 which was recaptured today \\u2014 could see smoke rising from the Karama battle, and soldiers also fought in the Aden district. There are also new reports of resistance fighters attacking militants in the city. Special forces also captured the eastern villages of Subhi, Sunaidii, and Tubruq. Shi\\u2019ite militiamen reported freeing the western villages of Abu Shwayha, Albu Juradi, Arish, Aslya Huwaysh, Dalawiya Al Sharqiyan, Imam Hamza, Hasuna, Kharani Gargara, Khurba Tayir, Mushairafa, Sahi Abas, Sruj, Um Shanin, Um Sijqn, Zuwai\\u2019za\\u2019s, and Tal Shikham. On the northern front, troops liberated Najmook, Shalalat, and Tal Yabis. At least 408 people were killed and 71 were wounded in recent violence: Militants executed 300 people , civilians and former security personnel, north of Mosul in the village of Moshairefa . In Baghdad , at least 16 people were killed and 50 were wounded in various attacks around the city. Gunmen killed a Peshmerga soldier in Tel Skuf , as he was trying to defuse a bomb. In Mosul , militants killed 50 of their own and mutilated 20 others for fleeing the fighting. Seven militants were killed in fighting in the Aden district. An explosion killed several militant leaders. Read more by Margaret Griffis\", \"title\": \"5,561 Killed in Iraq during October\", \"source_id\": 887}"