"{\"article_id\": 332633, \"title\": \"Hero of Novorossiya: Honoring the death of Arsen Pavlov aka \\\"Motorola\\\"\", \"content\": \"Thu, 27 Oct 2016 13:01 UTC Arsen Pavlov, or Motorola, was the leader of the Sparta battalion in the war for Donbass. The people of Novorossiya (aka the Donbass) have suffered a terrible loss. Arsen Pavlov better known to the world as Motorola was assassinated in a brutal terrorist bombing on October 16, 2016. He was a beloved commander and a hero to the people of the Donbass, to Russia, and to people all over the world who oppose the fascist junta in Ukraine and US imperialism. The murder was no doubt ordered by the empire in revenge for Russia's intervention in Syria which one year later appears to have decisively shifted the war. On every front the SAA are making advances and winning new victories especially in the battle to fully liberate Aleppo from NATO's terrorist death squads. Thankfully after the treacherous bombing at Deir Ezzor Russia was in no mood to give into the empty threats of full scale nuclear war the empire claimed it was prepared to launch in order to halt the liberation of Eastern Aleppo. Slowly the SAA are making gains on multiple fronts in Eastern Ghoutha, in Homs, in Aleppo. Arsen Pavlov was born in the Komi Republic at 15 he became an orphan and moved in with a grandmother. He joined the Russian Naval Infantry where he gained the callsign Motorola. He joined as a conscript but volunteered to reenlist and served in the 2nd Chechen War where he gained valuable experience, and they say became addicted to war. He was a bit of an adrenaline junky which added to his charisma since he was paradoxically cheerful in the most dangerous situations. He had a great sense of humor which came through even to non-russian speakers like myself but he was even more beloved in Russia and Ukraine for his hilarious narrations of the war in Ukraine. He was involved in the war in Ukraine from the start. He visited Maidan where he overheard some Ukrainian fascists saying that they would kill ten Russians for every Ukrainian they lost. He decided to join the anti-maidan movement participating in counter-protests in Eastern Ukraine in Karkov and other cities before heading to Crimea to aid the people in fulfilling their long held dream of reuniting with Russia. It was in Crimea that he met Igor Strelkov who was impressed with his military experience and cheerful daring. Thus Motorola was one of the small group of men he brought with him to Slavyansk where a handful of veterans worked with the brave locals managing keep the Ukrainian Military tied down for months allowing vital time for Donetsk and Lugansk to solidify their defenses . In Slavyansk Strelkov and Motorola would become legends. Motorola became well known early on because not only was he a brave fighter he was also a master of information war. It was Motorola who filmed many of the early battles of the war and also helped sympathetic journalists cover the war from the front lines. He well understood that the wars of today are fought not just on the battlefields but on the internet, on youtube, on social media. He helped mobilize Global support for Novorossia's war to remain independent of fascist Ukraine inspiring volunteers from around the world. He was also able wage psychological warfare on the Ukrainians using his instincts as a prankster. He managed to convince the Ukrainians that there were 300 Chechen special forces aiding the Novorossian's in the area by playing a recording of the Muslim call to prayer every day. The paranoid Ukrainians fell for it and did not dare to invade the area. Motorola would go on to fight in many of the major battles of the war. He was not one of those commanders who lead from behind. Instead Motorola often fought on the front lines with his men. How could he ask his fighters to risk their lives when he would not do the same he would explain when questioned. Thus like the legendary Mozgovoi Motorola was reported dead many times in the course of the war by the Ukrainian media always reappearing to make a mockery of such claims. To do justice to his heroic actions in the war in Ukraine would require writing a history of much of the war since he was at so many famous battles Nikolayevka Semyonuka, Ilovaisk, Debaltsevo, Donetsk. He became the commander of the Spartak Battalion and was instrumental in liberating Donetsk airport from the fascist self styled \\\"cyborgs.\\\" He had a beautiful and courageous wife and three children. He was Officially declared a Hero of Novorossia and honored in Last years victory parade celebrating both the victory over fascism in \\\"The Great Patriotic War\\\" as World War 2 is known in Russia but also the victories in the 2014-2015 wars of independence that saw the NATO backed Fascist Ukrainian army and it's death squad allies thoroughly smashed. Arsen Pavlov with his wife Yelena Kolenkina Read the rest of the article here . Comment: Further reading: The commander of the Sparta battalion of the Donetsk People's Republic and famous defender of Donbass known by his callsign \\\"Motorola,\\\" Arsen Pavlov, was killed today, October 16th, by a bomb in his apartment building's elevator. The incident has been officially confirmed as an assassination carried out by Ukrainian special forces.\", \"source_id\": 18022}"