"{\"title\": \"Raid captures suspected terror leader\", \"content\": \"In a stealthy seaside assault in Somalia and in a raid in Libya\\u2019s capital, U.S. special forces Saturday struck out against Islamic extremists who have carried out terrorist attacks in East Africa, snatching a Libyan Al-Qaeda leader allegedly involved in the bombings of U.S. embassies 15 years ago but aborting a mission to capture a terrorist suspect linked to last month\\u2019s Nairobi shopping mall attack after a fierce firefight.A U.S. Navy SEAL team swam ashore near a town in southern Somalia before militants of the Al Qaeda-linked terrorist group al-Shabab rose for dawn prayers, U.S. and Somali officials told The Associated Press. The raid on a house in the town of Barawe targeted a specific Al-Qaeda suspect related to the mall attack, but the operation did not get its target, one current and one former U.S. military official told AP..In Washington, Pentagon spokesman George Little confirmed that U.S. military personnel had been involved in a counterterrorism operation against a known al-Shabab terrorist in Somalia, but did not provide details.Little, however, offered this statement about the operation in Libya: \\u201cAbu Anas al Libi has been indicted in the Southern District of New York in connection with his alleged role in Al Qaeda\\u2019s conspiracy to kill U.S.nationals and to conduct attacks against U.S. interests worldwide, which included Al Qaeda plots to attack U.S. forces stationed in Saudi Arabia,Yemen, and Somalia, as well as the U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya.\\u201dHe also said that the prisoner was \\u201cdetained under the law of war in a secure location outside of Libya.\\u201dU.S. officials said there were no U.S. casualties in either the Somali or Libyan operation.The Somali raid was carried out by members of SEAL Team Six, the same unit that killed Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in his Pakistan hideout in 2011, another senior U.S. military official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to speak publicly.But this time, SEAL Team Six members encountered fiercer resistance than expected so after a 15-20 minute firefight, the unit leader decided to abort the mission and they swam away, the official said. SEAL Team Six has responsibility for counterterrorism activities in the Horn of Africa.Within hours of the Somalia attack, the U.S. Army\\u2019s Delta Force carried out a raid in Libya\\u2019s capital, Tripoli, to seize a Libyan al-Qaida leader wanted for the 1998 bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed more than 220 people, the military official said. Delta Force carries out counterterrorism operations in North Africa.The Pentagon identified the captured Al-Qaeda leader as Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, known by his alias Anas al-Libi, who has been on the FBI\\u2019s most wanted terrorists list since it was introduced shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.Al-Libi \\u201cis currently lawfully detained by the U.S. military in a secure location outside of Libya,\\u201d Pentagon spokesman Little said.Saturday\\u2019s raid in Somalia occurred 20 years after the famous \\u201cBlack Hawk Down\\u201d battle in Mogadishu in which a mission to capture Somali warlords in the capital went awry after militiamen shot down two U.S. helicopters. Eighteen U.S. soldiers were killed in the battle, and it marked the beginning of the end of that U.S. military mission to bring stability to the Horn of Africa nation. Since then, U.S. military intervention has been limited to missile attacks and lightning operations by special forces.A resident of Barawe, a seaside town 150 miles south of Mogadishu, said by telephone that heavy gunfire woke up residents before dawn prayers.The U.S. forces attacked a two-story beachside house in Barawe where foreign fighters lived, battling their way inside, said an al-Shabab fighter who gave his name as Abu Mohamed and who said he had visited the scene. Al-Shabab has a formal alliance with Al Qaeda, and hundreds of men from the U.S., Britain and Middle Eastern countries fight alongside Somali members of al-Shabab.A separate U.S. official described the action in Barawe as a capture operation against a high-value target. The official said U.S. forces engaged al-Shabab militants and sought to avoid civilian casualties. The U.S. forces disengaged after inflicting some casualties on fighters, said the official, who was not authorized to speak by name and insisted on anonymity.\", \"source_id\": 1, \"article_id\": 35431}"